---
layout: post
title:  "So Far"
date:   2014-08-28 21:42:07
---

This is 3 weeks of reports!

Week 1
---

Walker and I left the behaviorist Wednesday morning, confident and ready to start the long road of training.

### Thursday
Thursday we did some sit training, normal walks.
There was pulling and general puppy craziness, but I was a bit more confident, a little less anxious, and managed through things.
We went to the store to get him a new bed to keep out of his crate so that this can be his "safe zone".
I started to introduce the bed and the word `pillow` as a command for him to go to the bed, crumbly peanut butter treats were used.
That night I went to Walgreens to pickup his medication 1/2 tablet of Trazadom every 12 hours.
This was his first dose of Trazadom that night and I did not notice much of a difference.

### Friday
We started a drive to Louisiana via the Natchez Trace (440mi + 90mi).
Usually Walker travels in the passenger wheel well of my car, this was his first time in the crate in the back of the car.
There was some whining to get started and he needed to pee after about 40 mins on the Trace (about 2 hours since his last stop).
Even though taking the Trace added 3 hours to a 9 hour trip, luckily, there are lots of pull offs for various historic landmarks:
this allowed pee breaks for Walker, and about 1.5 miles of walking on various nature trails.
We make it to my uncle's house and he begins jumping on my uncle and trying to chase his little Teacup Yorkie.
While watching TV we were able to distract him with a bully stick which he then pranced around trying to show off.

### Saturday
We wake up in the morning and Walker is ready to go!
Once again during breakfast, it is a game of him trying to chase the Yorkie.
After breakfast, we go for a 1/2mi walk, the humidity and heat wore me down quickly.
Then my uncle and I take care of a bit of yard work which is when Walker first notices the parrot (outside for the morning and a quick sprinkler shower).
I allow Walker to run circles around the outside of the wrought-iron fenced-in patio, correcting when he would try to jump and stick his head through the fence spindles.
He's clearly not happy when I go into the fence, even when I'm standing inches inside of the gate.
I then pack things up, get ready to leave, and put Walker in his crate.
I forgot something inside and was able to leave Walker in the crate in the car ALONE (the AC was on full blast and the car had been cooled down) for ~2 mins and came back to him not whining.

When we get to my grandmother's, Walker is very energetic and tries jumping up.
He also seems very playful to go back and forth through a curtain that is across the entrance to the hallway (this was taken down after he started trying to bite it as he ran through it).
I try to run him a bit and the heat wears me out much quicker than him.
However, when in the house and new activities/people aren't being introduced, he is laying down.

### Sunday
We move around quite a bit between relatives' houses.
Walker is introduced to my cousin who is in a large powered wheelchair, this was very new to him, but he doesn't seem incredibly phased by it.
He jumps up on people, we try not to pay him attention until he calms down.
He is counter surfing and now interested in my grandmother's parakeet.
Being a natural bird dog, this is a HUGE test of his attention and self-control: he puts his front feet up on the cage and we have to put the bird behind some chairs.
Walker isn't able to jump onto the cage, but he is able to climb under the chairs and has now found that the shelf under the cage is a pretty good spot for watching and listening to `the bird`.
There is general walking around and some short training sessions with `sit`, `stay`, and `pillow`.

### Monday
In the morning, Walker is pretty crazy running around trying to jump on my cousin and grandmother and guests.
I let him outside alone and he started to run between the doors, I knocked on the glass after he started to go from a quiet whimper into more of a panic mode, then let him in once quiet(ish).
The day went by pretty standard, he would jump a bit but seemed to be improving around my family members.
Continued work on `sit`, `stay`, and `pillow`.

This is the first day that Walker is introduced to swimming.
In my aunt's pool, we start out by gently bringing him on to the first step and getting him to stand in the water.
From there, we try the second step which, while he could stand on, his body would be completely submerged and his head would have to be lifted up pretty high to stay out of the water.
So, we switch to holding him and wading out in the water.
There's a lot of kicking, but when we are holding him and he calms down, we release him and try to train him to go to the steps to get out.
After about 45 mins, we let out my aunt's Golden which jumps in the pool, Walker then runs laps around the pool edge barking.
The dogs play around the yard for a while.

After the dogs played around for 15-20 mins we took Walker to the grooming table to dry off.
He was very distracted trying to get to his new friend Houston, and he did not like the new hose hair dryer.
With much pulling and holding, we were able to get him about 50% dry with the dryer and then I toweled him off from there.

### Rest of Week
Honestly, I was so busy, this became a huge blur of days.
Walker went swimming a few more times and got to the point where if he was already on the first step of the pool, he would swim after me or Houston in the pool.
He also was able to be left outside for longer periods without panicking.
I did find that part of this was because he was trying to sniff out squirrels, birds, and cat poop from the yard.
On a related note, he is quite terrible at digging: a small apple sized hole in sand took him almost 20 mins to dig.

When I would leave him with my grandmother to visit with my cousins, he would whine and pace for a while but then settle down.
On my return, he would try to attach himself to my leg (no humping, litterally lock his front paws on my shoe and just lay down not moving).

### Jumps
Because of the extreme heat and humidity, we were not able to do much of our normal walking routine, reducing to about 1-2mi per day.
To help exercise Walker quicker my aunt brought over some agility jumps the last three days I was in town.
With ham as a reward, we taught walker to sit at one end and take the jumps (8in high).
Being pretty a pretty quick learner, by day two when I was exercising him on my own, if I took too long of a break (say to get out my phone to line up a video of him jumping), he would jump to the other side and stare at me waiting for a treat (I would not give him one for this since he had broken the `stay` command without hearing his name or `come`).
This seemed to be really good exercise (both physical and mentally) for him and I'm now looking at building a set of jumps to exercise him in my backyard/park area.

### Ride Home - August 18
Walker is pretty good, I am able to go inside to grab sunglasses and restroom stops during the trip.
He's pacing the crate and whimpering, but he didn't pee or drool enough to be noticeable (once he calms down, I pet and snuggle him, then it's water and back in the crate).

### Rest of Week
It's another hectic work week, I've started to use a coin shaker bottle to distract Walker from jumping on things and getting into stuff.
He really seems to like running behind the couch and then laying down and being a puppy (play barks, wiggles, and scratching a bit), I try my best to distract him from going back there since there's wires to chew and speaker stands that can fall on him.
We continue to work on `sit`, `stay`, and `pillow`.
I have been able to increase the length of `stay` and get about to the end of the kitchen (10-12 feet).

He's also started a new thing which while hillarious, is a bit of a bad habit.
When told to go to his `pillow` Walker will look at me for the treat (or affection) and will back up putting just the edge of his rump on the pillow.
I've started to only reward when he is sitting/laying completely on the pillow.

### Terror
While Walker was about at a level amount of jumping over my time in Louisiana, on returning to Nashville, he seems to have gotten much worse about jumping on new people (both guests/puppy-sitters in my home and when walking down the street or around the apartment)
While his food content has gone down a bit (7/8 cup 3 times/day to 1 cup 2 times/day), his general energy level seems to have gone up.
We still average 2/2.5 miles of walking (not the 3.5-4 before the trip we had been pretty accustom to), this is due to a mix of my schedule and the weather.

### Pet sitter
I had a sitter come in while I went to a lunch meeting Wednesday and another came Friday so that I could go in to the office and run some errands.
He was very rambunctious when I was leaving and the puppy sitter was arriving (still very jumpy).
But from my understanding after a while after I had left, he settled down and napped most of the time until I returned.

### Week of August 25
Another busy, busy week!
Monday I emailed to try and get Walker into an obedience or puppy class since my meetings and schedule had prohibited me the week before.
We are increasing our walks a bit more and we are getting closer to 3 miles average per day.

Monday I also started a new training exercise for Walker's separation issues working up to gradual departures.

### Not Freaking Out At the Door

> You seek a great fortune, you three who are now in chains. You will find a fortune, though it will not be the one you seek. But first... first you must travel a long and difficult road, a road fraught with peril. Mm-hmm. You shall see thangs, wonderful to tell... And, oh, so many startlements. I cannot tell you how long this road shall be, but fear not the obstacles in your path, for fate has vouchsafed your reward. Though the road may wind, yea, your hearts grow weary, still shall ye follow them, even unto your salvation. - O Brother Where Art Thou

Walker was a natural sitter from when I got him.
He may have been alert, but sitting was his go to position until he was about 4 months old.
So now the command `sit` seems to be more of an issue of listening rather than comprehension.
Other commands `crate`, `pillow`, `down`, `touch` are a bit more difficult to get out of him.

This new training exercise was going to be a bit of a gauntlet.
But at the end of it all was the great prize of [HAM](http://hambutton.com/) (yes, he responds to the [Ham Button](http://hambutton.com/)).
The biggest test during these training sessions is sitting and staying while I open the door.
After one day, I start walking into the door opening.
On the third day, I started closing the door behind me, then during the training that night, I closed the door and stayed out for 1 min.
I could hear him pacing in front of the door and sniffing, but he didn't even whimper.
We did this 5 times.

### This week while at work

This Wednesday, I had a sitter watch Walker while I had a full day in the office.
He was jumping and excited for quite a while when the sitter came over.
From there, my sitter walked Walker for a while immediately while I left.
This seemed to reduce some of the pacing when I left.
From reports, Walker slept while at home, but pulled while walking around town.

---

And that brings us up to Thursday August, 28.
I was going to write that article tonight, but I'm afraid that I will devolve to ONLY movie quotes, memes, and links.
